losad_data = [('PMC5673852', 'With the exception of mammals, vertebrate erythrocytes are nucleated. Nevertheless, these cells are usually considered as mere carriers of hemoglobin. In this work, however, we describe for the first time an unrecognized role of teleost red blood cells (RBCs). We found that Nk-lysin (Nkl), an antimicrobial peptide produced by NK-cells and cytotoxic T-lymphocytes, was also expressed in flatfish turbot (Scophthalmus maximus) erythrocytes. Although the antiviral role of Nkl remains to be elucidated, we found a positive correlation between the transcription of nkl and the resistance to an infection with Rhabdovirus in a teleost fish. Surprisingly, Nkl was found to be present in the autophagolysosomes of erythrocytes, and therefore this higher resistance provided by Nkl could be related to autophagy. The organelles of RBCs are degraded through autophagy during the maturation process of these cells. In this work, we observed that the blockage of autophagy increased the replication of viral hemorrhagic septicemia virus in nucleated teleost erythrocytes, which suggests that this mechanism may also be a key process in the defense against viruses in these cells. Nkl, which possesses membrane-perturbing ability and was affected by this modulation of RBC autophagy, could also participate in this process. For the first time, autophagy has been described not only as a life cycle event during the maturation of erythrocytes but also as a pivotal antiviral mechanism in nucleated erythrocytes. These results suggest a role of erythrocytes and Nkl in the antiviral immunity of fish and other vertebrates with nucleated RBCs.'),
             ('PMC5668538', 'Pasteurella multocida causes pneumonic pasteurellosis and hemorrhagic septicemia (HS) in large ruminants. In this study, we determined the complete genome sequence of P. multocida strain PMTB2.1 capsular serotype A isolated from buffaloes that died of septicemia.'),
             ('PMC5653880', 'Members of gram-negative bacteria family Pasteurellaceae, include a large number of important economically human and veterinary pathogens. Organisms belonging to the family can colonize in mucosal surfaces of the respiratory, alimentary, genital tracts and cause diseases in various mammals, birds, and reptiles. Hemorrhagic septicemia is an acute disease of cattle and buffaloes in tropical countries caused by Pasteurella multocida serotype B:2. In the present study, the possible bactericidal activity of immune calf sera in the presence and absence of complement system was investigated. The results showed that P. multocida B:2 is highly resistant to positive serum, containing high levels of IgG and IgM obtained from calves after vaccination, and complement activity in normal fresh calf serum. This organism also grew rapidly in the normal fresh calf serum and the mixture of positive serum as well as normal fresh calf serum. As a control test an E. coli strain was subjected to the same experiment and found completely sensitive to the bactericidal activity of complement in calf and guinea pig fresh sera. Results were indicative of the presence of inhibitory mechanism(s) in P. multocida B:2 against bactericidal activity of immune calf serum and complement system.'),
             ('PMC5695737', "BACKGROUND: Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a chronic autoimmune disease that is a source of significantly decreased life expectancy in the United States. This study investigated causes of deaths among males and females with SLE. MATERIALS AND METHODS: This cross-sectional study used the national death certificate database of approximately 2.7 million death records in the United States, 2014. SLE was defined using Tenth Revision of the International Classification of Diseases codes: M32.1, M32.9, and M32.8. We compared sex-stratified demographic characteristics and the most commonly listed comorbidities in decedents with and without SLE. Relative risks (RRs) quantified the risk of dying with the most commonly listed comorbidities among decedents with SLE aged </=50 years compared with non-SLE decedents. RESULTS: There were 2,036 decedents with SLE in the United States (86.2% female). Female SLE decedents were 22 years younger than non-SLE females (median: 59 years vs. 81 years). This difference was 12 years among male decedents (median: 61 years vs. 73 years). The most frequently listed causes of death among female SLE decedents were septicemia (4.32%) and hypertension (3.04%). In contrast, heart disease (3.70%) and diabetes mellitus with complications (3.61%) were the most common among male SLE decedents. Among younger male decedents, SLE had higher co-occurrence of coagulation/hemorrhagic disorders and chronic renal failure compared with non-SLE (RR = 16.69 [95% confidence interval {CI} = 10.50-27.44] and RR = 5.76 [95% CI = 2.76-12.00], respectively). These also contributed to premature mortality among women (RR = 4.98 [95% CI = 3.69-6.70] and 8.55 [95% CI = 6.89-10.61], respectively). CONCLUSIONS: Our findings identify clinically relevant comorbidities that may warrant careful consideration in patients' clinical management and the natural history of SLE."),
             ('PMC5567471', 'BACKGROUND: Outbreaks of a Haemorrhagic Septicaemia (HS) like disease causing large mortalities in camels (Camelus dromedarius) in Asia and in Africa have been reported since 1890. Yet the aetiology of this condition remains elusive. This study is the first to apply state of the art molecular methods to shed light on the nasopharyngeal carrier state of Pasteurellaceae in camels. The study focused on HS causing Pasteurella multocida capsular types B and E. Other Pasteurellaceae, implicated in common respiratory infections of animals, were also investigated. METHODS: In 2007 and 2008, 388 nasopharyngeal swabs were collected at 12 locations in North Kenya from 246 clinically healthy camels in 81 herds that had been affected by HS-like disease. Swabs were used to cultivate bacteria on blood agar and to extract DNA for subsequent PCR analysis targeting P. multocida and Mannheimia-specific gene sequences. RESULTS: Forty-five samples were positive for P. multocida genes kmt and psl and for the P. multocida Haemorrhagic Septicaemia (HS) specific sequences KTSP61/KTT72 but lacked HS-associated capsular type B and E genes capB and capE. This indicates circulation of HS strains in camels that lack established capsular types. Sequence analysis of the partial 16S rRNA gene identified 17 nasal swab isolates as 99% identical with Mannheimia granulomatis, demonstrating a hitherto unrecognised active carrier state for M. granulomatis or a closely related Mannheimia sp. in camels. CONCLUSIONS: The findings of this study provide evidence for the presence of acapsular P. multocida or of hitherto unknown capsular types of P. multocida in camels, closely related to P. multocida strains causing HS in bovines. Further isolations and molecular studies of camelid P. multocida from healthy carriers and from HS-like disease in camels are necessary to provide conclusive answers. This paper is the first report on the isolation of M. granulomatis or a closely related new Mannheimia species from camelids.'),
             ('PMC5577588', 'Pasteurella multocida is a heterogeneous species that is a primary pathogen of many different vertebrates. This Gram-negative bacterium can cause a range of diseases, including fowl cholera in birds, haemorrhagic septicaemia in ungulates, atrophic rhinitis in swine, and lower respiratory tract infections in cattle and pigs. One of the primary virulence factors of P. multocida is lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Recent work has shown that this crucial surface molecule shows significant structural variability across different P. multocida strains, with many producing LPS structures that are highly similar to the carbohydrate component of host glycoproteins. It is likely that this LPS mimicry of host molecules plays a major role in the survival of P. multocida in certain host niches. P. multocida LPS also plays a significant role in resisting the action of chicken cathelicidins, and is a strong stimulator of host immune responses. The inflammatory response to the endotoxic lipid A component is a major contributor to the pathogenesis of certain infections. Recent work has shown that vaccines containing killed bacteria give protection only against other strains with identical, or nearly identical, surface LPS structures. Conversely, live attenuated vaccines give protection that is broadly protective, and their efficacy is independent of LPS structure.'),
             ('PMC5559837', 'BACKGROUND: Pasteurella multocida is a Gram-negative bacterium that causes economically significant infections of a broad range of animal species. Pneumonic and septicaemic pasteurellosis caused by this bacterium remain important problems in pigs, cattle, and water buffaloes in Thailand. The aim of this study was to characterise the virulence-associated gene profiles and to develop an OmpA molecular typing scheme for classifying 191 bovine and porcine isolates of P. multocida collected between 1989 and 2012 in Thailand using polymerase chain reactions (PCRs), nucleotide sequencing, and sequence and structural bioinformatics analyses. RESULTS: PCR screening successfully characterised the profiles of 25 virulence-associated genes in all isolates. The gene profiles separated these isolates into bovine and porcine clusters based on eight genes (hgbB, hsf1, tadD, nanH, pfhA, plpE, pmHAS, and tbpA). Phylogenetic analyses of the nucleotide and protein sequences corresponding to the ompA gene, which encodes a major outer membrane surface protein, showed two major bovine and porcine clusters. Structural prediction and analysis of the dN/dS ratio revealed four hypervariable extracellular loops of the OmpA transmembrane domains. These four loops were used to develop an OmpA typing scheme. This scheme classified 186 isolates into five major loop sequence types (LST8, LST12, LST15, LST18, and LST19), consistent with the phylogenetic results. The loop regions of the bovine isolates were predicted to be more antigenic than those of the porcine isolates. Thus, molecular evolution of the OmpA proteins could be used to classify P. multocida isolates into different capsular types, host types, and, possibly, pathogenicity levels. CONCLUSIONS: Together with the virulence-associated gene profiles, the typing reported in this work provides a better understanding of P. multocida virulence. Effective monitoring and potential strain-specific subunit vaccines could be developed based on these loop oligopeptides.'),
             ('PMC5524678', 'The hemorrhagic septicemic disease vibriosis caused by Vibrio anguillarum shows noticeable similarities to invasive septicemia in humans, and in this case, the V. anguillarum-host system has the potential to serve as a model for understanding native eukaryotic host-pathogen interactions. Iron acquisition, as a fierce battle occurring between pathogenic V. anguillarum and the fish host, is a pivotal step for virulence. In this article, advances in defining the roles of iron uptake pathways in growth and virulence of V. anguillarum have been summarized, divided into five aspects, including siderophore biosynthesis and secretion, iron uptake, iron release, and regulation of iron uptake. Understanding the molecular mechanisms of iron acquisition will have important implications for the pathogenicity of this organism.'),
             ('PMC5599748', "Viral hemorrhagic septicemia virus (VHSV) is a pathogenic fish rhabdovirus found in discrete locales throughout the Northern Hemisphere. VHSV infection of fish cells leads to upregulation of the host's virus detection response, but the virus quickly suppresses interferon (IFN) production and antiviral gene expression. By systematically screening each of the six VHSV structural and nonstructural genes, we identified matrix protein (M) as the virus' most potent antihost protein. Only M of VHSV genotype IV sublineage b (VHSV-IVb) suppressed mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein (MAVS) and type I IFN-induced gene expression in a dose-dependent manner. M also suppressed the constitutively active simian virus 40 (SV40) promoter and globally decreased cellular RNA levels. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) studies illustrated that M inhibited RNA polymerase II (RNAP II) recruitment to gene promoters and decreased RNAP II C-terminal domain (CTD) Ser2 phosphorylation during VHSV infection. However, transcription directed by RNAP I to III was suppressed by M. To identify regions of functional importance, M proteins from a variety of VHSV strains were tested in cell-based transcriptional inhibition assays. M of a particular VHSV-Ia strain, F1, was significantly less potent than IVb M at inhibiting SV40/luciferase (Luc) expression yet differed by just 4 amino acids. Mutation of D62 to alanine alone, or in combination with an E181-to-alanine mutation (D62A E181A), dramatically reduced the ability of IVb M to suppress host transcription. Introducing either M D62A or D62A E181A mutations into VHSV-IVb via reverse genetics resulted in viruses that replicated efficiently but exhibited less cytotoxicity and reduced antitranscriptional activities, implicating M as a primary regulator of cytopathicity and host transcriptional suppression.IMPORTANCE Viruses must suppress host antiviral responses to replicate and spread between hosts. In these studies, we identified the matrix protein of the deadly fish novirhabdovirus VHSV as a critical mediator of host suppression during infection. Our studies indicated that M alone could block cellular gene expression at very low expression levels. We identified several subtle mutations in M that were less potent at suppressing host transcription. When these mutations were engineered back into recombinant viruses, the resulting viruses replicated well but elicited less toxicity in infected cells and activated host innate immune responses more robustly. These data demonstrated that VHSV M plays an important role in mediating both virus-induced cell toxicity and viral replication. Our data suggest that its roles in these two processes can be separated to design effective attenuated viruses for vaccine candidates."),
             ('PMC5509158', 'Pasteurella multocida causes acute septicemic and respiratory diseases, including haemorrhagic septicaemia, in cattle and buffalo with case fatality of 100%. In the present study, mice were infected with P. multocida (1.6 x 103 cfu, intraperitoneal) to evaluate host gene expression profile at early and late stages of infection using high throughput microarray transcriptome analyses. Several differentially expressed genes (DEGs) at both the time points were identified in P.multocida infected spleen, liver and lungs. Functional annotation of these DEGs showed enrichment of key pathways such as TLR, NF-kappaB, MAPK, TNF, JAK-STAT and NOD like receptor signaling pathways. Several DEGs overlapped across different KEGG pathways indicating a crosstalk between them. The predicted protein-protein interaction among these DEGs suggested, that the recognition of P. multocida LPS or outer membrane components by TLR4 and CD14, results in intracellular signaling via MyD88, IRAKs and/or TRAF6 leading to activation of NFkappaB and MAPK pathways and associated cytokines.'),
             ('PMC5477146', 'BACKGROUND: Pasteurella multocida B:2 causes bovine haemorrhagic septicaemia (HS), leading to rapid fatalities in cattle and buffaloes. An attenuated derivative of P. multocida B:2 GDH7, was previously constructed through mutation of the gdhA gene and proved to be an effective live attenuated vaccine for HS. Currently, only two potential live attenuated vaccine candidates for HS are being reported; P. multocida B:2 GDH7 and P. multocida B:2 JRMT12. This study primarily aims to investigate the potential of P. multocida B:2 GDH7 strain as a delivery vehicle for DNA vaccine for future multivalent applications. RESULTS: An investigation on the adherence, invasion and intracellular survival of bacterial strains within the bovine aortic endothelial cell line (BAEC) were carried out. The potential vaccine strain, P. multocida B:2 GDH7, was significantly better (p </= 0.05) at adhering to and invading BAEC compared to its parent strain and to P. multocida B:2 JRMT12 and survived intracellularly 7 h post treatment, with a steady decline over time. A dual reporter plasmid, pSRGM, which enabled tracking of bacterial movement from the extracellular environment into the intracellular compartment of the mammalian cells, was subsequently transformed into P. multocida B:2 GDH7. Intracellular trafficking of the vaccine strain, P. multocida B:2 GDH7 was subsequently visualized by tracking the reporter proteins via confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). CONCLUSIONS: The ability of P. multocida B:2 GDH7 to model bactofection represents a possibility for this vaccine strain to be used as a delivery vehicle for DNA vaccine for future multivalent protection in cattle and buffaloes.'),
             ('PMC5447721', 'Pasteurella multocida, a Gram-negative opportunistic pathogen, has led to a broad range of diseases in mammals and birds, including fowl cholera in poultry, pneumonia and atrophic rhinitis in swine and rabbit, hemorrhagic septicemia in cattle, and bite infections in humans. In order to better interpret the genetic diversity and adaptation evolution of this pathogen, seven genomes of P. multocida strains isolated from fowls, rabbit and pigs were determined by using high-throughput sequencing approach. Together with publicly available P. multocida genomes, evolutionary features were systematically analyzed in this study. Clustering of 70,565 protein-coding genes showed that the pangenome of 33 P. multocida strains was composed of 1,602 core genes, 1,364 dispensable genes, and 1,070 strain-specific genes. Of these, we identified a full spectrum of genes related to virulence factors and revealed genetic diversity of these potential virulence markers across P. multocida strains, e.g., bcbAB, fcbC, lipA, bexDCA, ctrCD, lgtA, lgtC, lic2A involved in biogenesis of surface polysaccharides, hsf encoding autotransporter adhesin, and fhaB encoding filamentous haemagglutinin. Furthermore, based on genome-wide positive selection scanning, a total of 35 genes were subject to strong selection pressure. Extensive analyses of protein subcellular location indicated that membrane-associated genes were highly abundant among all positively selected genes. The detected amino acid sites undergoing adaptive selection were preferably located in extracellular space, perhaps associated with bacterial evasion of host immune responses. Our findings shed more light on conservation and distribution of virulence-associated genes across P. multocida strains. Meanwhile, this study provides a genetic context for future researches on the mechanism of adaptive evolution in P. multocida.'),
             ('PMC5382481', 'BACKGROUND: Hemorrhagic septicemia is a fatal disease of cattle and buffaloes caused by P. multocida. Although the pathogenesis of the bacteria has been well established in literature, there is a paucity of information on the possible role of the bacteria and its immunogens; lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and outer membrane proteins (OMPs) on the reproductive capacity of buffalo heifers. METHODS: In this study, twenty one healthy prepubertal female buffaloes aged 8 months were divided into seven groups of 3 buffaloes each (G1-G7). Group 1 (G1) served as the negative control group and were inoculated orally with 10 mL sterile Phosphate Buffer Saline (PBS), groups 2 (G2) and 3 (G3) were inoculated orally and subcutaneously with 10 mL of 10(12) colony forming unit (cfu) of P.multocida type B: 2, while groups 4 (G4) and 5 (G5) received 10 mL of bacterial LPS orally and intravenously, respectively. Lastly, groups 6 (G6) and 7 (G7) were orally and subcutaneously inoculated with 10 mL of bacterial OMPs. Whole blood was collected in EDTA vials at stipulated time points (0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 24, 36, 48, 72, 120, 168, 216, 264, 312, 360, 408, 456 and 504 h), while tissue sections of the pituitary glands were collected and transported to the histopathology laboratory in 10% buffered formalin for processing and Hematoxylin and eosin staining. Plasma levels of luteinizing hormone (LH), follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), progesterone (PG), estradiol (EST) and gonadotrophin releasing hormone (GnRH) were determined. RESULTS: The histopathological lesions observed in the pituitary gland included hemorrhage, congestion, inflammatory cell infiltration, hydropic degeneration, necrosis and edema. These changes were higher (p < 0.05) in distribution and severity in G3, G6 and G7. Hormonal concentrations of LH, FSH, PG, EST and GnRH declined in all inoculation groups as time elapsed and were lower (p < 0.05) than that of the control group. CONCLUSION: Based on these findings, P.multocida B: 2 and its immunogens can be said to negatively affect the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, resulting in decreased levels of reproductive hormones which may predispose to infertility in buffalo heifers.'),
             ('PMC5343655', 'Non virion (NV) protein expression is critical for fish Novirhabdovirus, viral hemorrhagic septicemia virus (VHSV) and infectious hematopoietic necrosis virus (IHNV), in vivo pathogenesis. However, the mechanism by which NV promotes the viral replication is still unclear. We developed an approach based on reverse genetics and interactomic and identified several NV-associated cellular partners underlying cellular pathways as potential viral targets. Among these cell partners, we showed that NV proteins specifically interact with a protein phosphatase, Mg(2+)/Mn(2+)-dependent, 1Bb (PPM1Bb) and recruit it in the close vicinity of mitochondria, a subcellular compartment important for retinoic acid-inducible gene-I- (RIG-I)-mediated interferon induction pathway. PPM1B proteins belong to the PP2C family of serine/threonine (Ser/Thr) protein phosphatase and have recently been shown to negatively regulate the host antiviral response via dephosphorylating Traf family member-associated NF-kappaB activator (TANK)-binding kinase 1 (TBK1). We demonstrated that NV proteins and PPM1Bb counteract RIG-I- and TBK1-dependent interferon (IFN) and IFN-stimulated gene promoter induction in fish cells and, hence, the establishment of an antiviral state. Furthermore, the expression of VHSV NV strongly reduced TBK1 phosphorylation and thus its activation. Our findings provide evidence for a previously undescribed mechanism by which a viral protein recruits PPM1Bb protein phosphatase to subvert innate immune recognition.'),
             ('PMC5338564', 'BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Infections have been found to increase the risk of stroke over the short term. We hypothesized that stroke risk would be highest shortly after a sepsis hospitalization, but that the risk would decrease, yet remain up to 1 year after sepsis. METHODS: This case-crossover analysis utilized data obtained from the California State Inpatient Database of the Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project. All stroke admissions were included. Exposure was defined as hospitalization for sepsis or septicemia 180, 90, 30, or 15 days before stroke (risk period) or similar time intervals exactly 1 or 2 years before stroke (control period). Conditional logistic regression was used to calculate the odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (95% CI) for the association between sepsis/septicemia and ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke. RESULTS: Ischemic (n=37 377) and hemorrhagic (n=12 817) strokes that occurred in 2009 were extracted where 3188 (8.5%) ischemic and 1101 (8.6%) hemorrhagic stroke patients had sepsis. Sepsis within 15 days before the stroke placed patients at the highest risk of ischemic (OR, 28.36; 95% CI, 20.02-40.10) and hemorrhagic stroke (OR, 12.10; 95% CI, 7.54-19.42); however, although the risk decreased, it remained elevated 181 to 365 days after sepsis for ischemic (OR, 2.59; 95% CI, 2.20-3.06) and hemorrhagic (OR, 3.92; 95% CI 3.29-4.69) strokes. There was an interaction with age (P=0.0006); risk of developing an ischemic stroke within 180 days of hospitalization for sepsis increased 18% with each 10-year decrease in age. CONCLUSIONS: Risk of stroke is high after sepsis, and this risk persists for up to a year. Younger sepsis patients have a particularly increased risk of stroke after sepsis.'),
             ('PMC5134280', 'BACKGROUND: The viral hemorrhagic septicemia virus (VHSV) is one of the most serious fish pathogens. In 2003, a novel sublineage (genotype IVb) of this deadly virus emerged in the Great Lakes basin causing serious fish kills. We have previously demonstrated that a DNA plasmid (pcDNA), containing a cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter and the viral hemorrhagic septicemia virus (VHSV) genotype IVb glycoprotein (G) gene insert (designated pVHSivb-G) confers moderate protection in muskellunge (Esox masquinongy), a highly susceptible species upon challenge. In order to achieve optimal protection, we investigated a number of factors including the incubation time [i.e. the number of degree days ( degrees days)] before challenge, and viral challenge dose and route. Additionally, we tested if pVHSivb-G provides protection against VHSV-IVb to less susceptible salmonids such as rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss), brown trout (Salmo trutta) and lake trout (Salvelinus namaycush). RESULTS: An increase in the period lapsed between vaccination and challenge to 1880 degrees days resulted in 95% relative percent protection (RPS) in muskellunge following a single administration of the pVHSivb-G plasmid and viral challenge. An RPS of 100% for muskellunge was achieved with a longer incubation period (2400 degrees days) and in conjunction with a booster dose of the plasmid. The pVHSivb-G vaccine also elicited significant protection in all three salmonid species, reaching 100% RPS in lake trout following an incubation period of 1001 degrees days prior to viral challenge. Vaccination with pVHSivb-G was also associated with the development of significant levels of circulating VHSV-binding antibodies in muskellunge as measured by indirect ELISA, which reached peak levels 6-7 weeks post-vaccination. Viral shedding in vaccinated survivors was minimal and of transient nature. CONCLUSIONS: The study shows that the pVHSivb-G plasmid can elicit a protective response against the wild virus strain in a range of species important in recreational and commercial Great Lakes fisheries.'),
             ('PMC5133897', 'Viral hemorrhagic septicemia virus genotype IVb (VHSV-IVb) is presently found throughout the Laurentian Great Lakes region of North America. We recently developed a DNA vaccine preparation containing the VHSV-IVb glycoprotein (G) gene with a cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter that proved highly efficacious in protecting muskellunge (Esox masquinongy) and three salmonid species. This study was conducted to determine whether cohabitation of VHSV-IVb immunized fishes could confer protection to non-vaccinated (i.e., naive) fishes upon challenge. The experimental layout consisted of multiple flow-through tanks where viral exposure was achieved via shedding from VHSV-IVb experimentally infected muskellunge housed in a tank supplying water to other tanks. The mean cumulative mortality of naive muskellunge averaged across eight trials (i.e., replicates) was significantly lower when co-occurring with immunized muskellunge than when naive muskellunge were housed alone (36.5% when co-occurring with vaccinated muskellunge versus 80.2% when housed alone), indicating a possible protective effect based on cohabitation with vaccinated individuals. Additionally, vaccinated muskellunge when co-occurring with naive muskellunge had significantly greater anti-VHSV antibody levels compared to vaccinated muskellunge housed alone suggesting that heightened anti-VHSV antibodies are a result of cohabitation with susceptible individuals. This finding could contribute to the considerably lower viable VHSV-IVb concentrations we detected in surviving naive muskellunge when housed with vaccinated muskellunge. Our research provides initial evidence of the occurrence of herd immunity against fish pathogens.'),
             ('PMC5070809', "One of the most valuable aquaculture fish in Europe is the rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss, but the profitability of trout production is threatened by a highly lethal infectious disease, viral hemorrhagic septicemia (VHS), caused by the VHS virus (VHSV). For the past few decades, the subgenogroup Ia of VHSV has been the main cause of VHS outbreaks in European freshwater-farmed rainbow trout. Little is currently known, however, about the phylogenetic radiation of this Ia lineage into subordinate Ia clades and their subsequent geographical spread routes. We investigated this topic using the largest Ia-isolate dataset ever compiled, comprising 651 complete G gene sequences: 209 GenBank Ia isolates and 442 Ia isolates from this study. The sequences come from 11 European countries and cover the period 1971-2015. Based on this dataset, we documented the extensive spread of the Ia population and the strong mixing of Ia isolates, assumed to be the result of the Europe-wide trout trade. For example, the Ia lineage underwent a radiation into nine Ia clades, most of which are difficult to allocate to a specific geographic distribution. Furthermore, we found indications for two rapid, large-scale population growth events, and identified three polytomies among the Ia clades, both of which possibly indicate a rapid radiation. However, only about 4% of Ia haplotypes (out of 398) occur in more than one European country. This apparently conflicting finding regarding the Europe-wide spread and mixing of Ia isolates can be explained by the high mutation rate of VHSV. Accordingly, the mean period of occurrence of a single Ia haplotype was less than a full year, and we found a substitution rate of up to 7.813 x 10-4 nucleotides per site per year. Finally, we documented significant differences between Germany and Denmark regarding their VHS epidemiology, apparently due to those countries' individual handling of VHS."),
             ('PMC5053517', 'Novirhabdoviruses like Viral Hemorrhagic Septicemia Virus (VHSV) and Infectious Hematopoietic Necrosis Virus (IHNV) are fish-infecting Rhabdoviruses belonging to the Mononegavirales order. By reverse genetics, we previously showed that a recombinant VHSV expressing the West Nile Virus (WNV) E glycoprotein could serve as a vaccine platform against WNV. In the current study, we aimed to evaluate the potential of the Novirhabdovirus platform as a vaccine against influenza virus. Recombinant Novirhabdoviruses, rVHSV-HA and rIHNV-HA, expressing at the viral surface the hemagglutinin HA ectodomain were generated and used to immunized mice. We showed that mice immunized with either, rVHSV-HA or rIHNV-HA, elicited a strong neutralizing antibody response against influenza virus. A complete protection was conferred to the immunized mice when challenged with a lethal dose of influenza H1N1 A/PR/8/34 virus. Furthermore we showed that although acting as inert antigen in mice, since naturally inactivated over 20 degrees C, mice immunized with rVHSV-HA or rIHNV-HA in the absence of adjuvant were also completely protected from a lethal challenge. Novirhabdoviruses platform are of particular interest as vaccines for mammals since they are cost effective to produce, relatively easy to generate and very effective to protect immunized animals.'),
             ('PMC5712181', "BACKGROUND: Ollier's disease is a non-hereditary, benign bone tumor which is usually characterized by presence of multiple radiolucent lesions (enchondromas) in the metaphysis of long bones with unilateral predominance. The disease is a rare clinical entity with 1/100000 occurrence in early childhood. Patients mostly present with multiple hard swellings and deformity of the tubular bones specially hands and feet with leg discrepancy and pathologic fractures. CASE PRESENTATION: We present two cases of Ollier's disease in a 13 years old female and 8 years old boy which had no specific symptoms. The girl had multiple hard swellings and deformity in the fingers of both hands and left toes with left leg deformity and discrepancy. Her plain radiographs demonstrated multiple expansile enchondromas in the phalanges of hands, left toes and metaphyses of upper humeri as well as left leg bones. The enchondromas were also noted in the left iliac bone and anterior end of ribs. The boy had bowing deformity and shortage of left leg with multiple enchondromas in the metaphyses of left femur, left tibia and fibula as well as left iliac bone in his radiographic images. CONCLUSION: Ollier's disease is usually diagnosed by clinical signs and typical location of enchondromas across skeleton in conventional radiography. It usually does not need specific treatment. Well understanding of the clinical manifestation and radiographic features can prevent unnecessary application of other imaging modalities; while other diagnostic imaging modalities like MRI, ultrasound and scintigraphy can be used in complicated and painful conditions."),
             ('PMC5390427', 'BACKGROUND: Enchondroma, a subtype of chondroma, originates from the medullary cavity of the bone and produces an expansile growth pattern. Enchondroma located in the spine is rare and a few cases of large thoracic enchondroma have been reported. The authors document a rare case of large enchondroma in the thoracic spine of a 49-year-old woman, and discuss its clinical, radiological and histopathological characteristics. CASE PRESENTATION: The patient presented with rapidly progressive and severe pain on her upper back. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed an expansile lesion at the posterior elements of T3 that was hypointense on T1-weighted images and mixed iso- to hyperintense on T2-weighted images. Administration of gadolinium-diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid (Gd-DTPA) resulted in heterogeneous enhancement. During surgery, a large tumor of 4.2cm x 4.7cm x 2.1cm was resected along with the lamina and spinous process. Histological examination revealed that the tumor consisted of mature hyaline cartilage with typical chondrocytes, indicating that it was an enchondroma. CONCLUSIONS: Despite its benign-growing nature, enchondroma should be examined closely for signs of enchondromatosis and enchondrosarcoma. Complete surgical resection is the treatment of choice for immediate relief of symptoms and avoidance of recurrence.'),
             ('PMC5234168', 'Juvenile granulosa cell tumor (JGCT) is a rare neoplasm of childhood. Interestingly, it is known to be associated with Ollier disease, which is a rare bone disease characterized by multiple enchondromatosis. There is paucity of literature about the co-occurence of these two conditions. However, this association is noteworthy because these two conditions share a common pathogenesis. We report a case of JGCT in a 2.5-year-old female child in which multiple enchondromas mimicking bony metastasis were an incidental finding during routine workup for tumor staging, thus leading to a diagnosis of Ollier disease.'),
             ('PMC4899633', 'Fibrous dysplasia (FD) is a monostotic or polyostotic benign bone lesion with spindle-cell proliferation in woven bone and stroma. Rarely, cartilaginous differentiation can be seen in the lesions of FD. FD with massive cartilaginous differentiation is called fibrocartilaginous dysplasia (FCD) and is considered a rare variant of FD. Although pathological findings of FD show irregular immature bone formation without osteoblastic rimming in fibrous tissue, and rarely show very small amounts of cartilage, histological images of FCD are said to show that cartilage with a relatively high cell density is present in the majority and that FD-like findings are seen in parts of it. The most characteristic feature of FCD on images is calcification in the lesions reflecting cartilaginous tissue. On the other hand, typical radiographic findings of FD include shadows with a ground-glass appearance and thinning and bulging of the cortical bone, the observation if calcification is not usual. Therefore, in the diagnosis of FCD, differentiation from multiple enchondromatosis, Ollier disease, chondrosarcoma, and chondrosarcoma secondary to FD is necessary, and it seems important to make a careful diagnosis based not only on the pathological findings but also on imaging and clinical findings. Herein, we report on a case of FD of the proximal femur associated with intralesional extensive carti laginous differentiation in which a pathological fracture occurred during follow-up, with a review of the literature.')]
